---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: Not All Languages Are Scary!
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2020-09-01
labels:
  - Javascript
  - Learning
---

# Forget Formality
The first thing that stood out to me about Javascript was its simplicity. Javascript seems to drop the technical mumbo-jumbo I often find myself googling for other languages such as Java and C. Forget about the main function, header files, and type declarations; drop the formality when it comes to Javascript. Programming suddenly feels more lax and fun. Having prior knowledge in Java definitely helped as Javascript uses much of the same syntax. I think Javascript is a great language from a software engineering perspective. Not having to worry too much about syntax will allow engineers to focus on their program. Also, being a popular language helps programmers be current and use the latest features. I have only scratched the surface and there is so much more to learn, but I'm eager to continue my journey through Javascript. 

# Do WODs Work?
I think athletic software engineering will condition me to become a highly efficient programmer. The layout of WODs demand efficiency; it requires both accuracy and speed to correctly solve a problem within a set time. I believe completing more and more WODs will strengthen both of these skills. I find the practice WODs to be very useful. In general, having a practice assignment prior to the actual assignment is useful. It simulates the experience of a real WOD, albeit less stressful, to prepare us. When I picture programming under timed conditions, I feel daunting thoughts. However, I believe undergoing these workouts will eventually rid the stress I feel; I will become a better programmer in the long run. There is a fair amount of practice for these WODS so there's no excuse not to succeed. 

# Foresight to 314
ICS314 certainly feels like a fast paced class, but that's not necessarily a bad thing. This high intensity learning environment will filter out those who are up for the challenge and those who aren't. I may not be the most prepared now, but what's important is adapting to the pace. If I do all the practice assignments and allocate enough time each week, I'm set. This course will shape and hone my programming muscles. I look forward to becoming a better programmer.
